---
layout: story
title: Trapped
---

He awoke for the sixth time that night. This time, like every time
before it, it seemed that his thoughts had masterfully chosen the
worst moment to tear him from some sweet dream of her, to rip him from
those lips and back into the reality they were no longer a part of.

The thoughts tore at him like wolves. He groaned and rolled over,
waiting for his exhaustion to overpower them again.

"Oh, boy," said a voice, worry apparent in its tone.

His thoughts went silent. There shouldn't have been a voice in his
bedroom. There was a voice he wouldn't have minded hearing, but it
wasn't this one. This one was masculine, and it had none of the
comforting familiarity.

He sat up and opened his eyes. And stared.

This was not his room. Absent was the stack of returned papers tossed
carelessly on his desk. Absent was the desk, too, and the bookshelf,
both of which he had tidied in a fit of uneasiness the day before.
Absent were his shoes and his clothes and his bag.

There were two ottomans on the far side of the room, padded with
cushions of the same deep red as the blankets on this bed that wasn't
his. They sat beside the window, and other than it, those ottomans,
and the bed, the room was bare.

He didn't know what to think. He hadn't been drunk. Miserable, sure;
but he hadn't been drunk. He was sure he had fallen asleep in his own
bed, because that's where he had been the last five times he had woken
up in the middle of the--

Night? He felt sure it shouldn't have been morning, even, and yet the
light pouring into the room told him that the sun was high in the sky.

He climbed out of the bed and walked over to the window. It was
extraordinarily large, taking up most of the wall. It also contained
no glass and was enough to the ground that a person could easily step
through. That was, he realized, probably how he had gotten here in the
first place; of the few things to notice in the room, none was an
exit.

Wherever he was, he was on the ground floor, so he stepped through the
window.

And into a different world.

Wherever the sun had been shining from, it wasn't here.  The whole
place seemed to be enveloped in a thick, white fog which left only a
little clear space in front of him and a few hundred feet of it to
either side.

He could see that he stood at the foot of a hill, but the fog kept him
from seeing its peak. What concerned him more than the lay, though,
was what the land *was*. The ground was covered in what looked like
grass, but instead of the usual green, it was colored in blotches of
sickly pastel purples and oranges and blues.

This was too creepy to be somewhere he wanted to be. He turned around,
expecting to see a way back through the window. He didn't, but he
didn't have time to be concerned with that. As he turned, he lost his
footing.  He was falling.

He awoke with a start. Ah, he thought. One of *those* dreams.

"*Oh*, boy."

The voice. He had forgotten it in his surprise before.

But hadn't he been dreaming? He sat up and looked around. He was in
the same alien room as before, but other than the ottomans and the
window, all that greeted his eyes was the stark whiteness of the
walls. There was no source for the voice.

"Um...excuse me?" he said, lost for anything else.

At this point, he stopped worrying about any encounter he might have
had with alcohol. Clearly, he must have dealt with harsher
substances. Acid, he thought; that would explain the creepy world
through the window. And the fact that a ottoman was talking to him.

"You shouldn't be here," one of the cushions flapped.

"Well, yeah," he replied, "but where *am* I?"

"You're on the wrong side."

He was confused. "Am I... dead?"

He could tell that the ottoman was annoyed. "No. You just woke up on
the wrong side."

That still sounded like death. And this still felt like a bad acid
trip.

He sighed in exasperation. "The wrong side? Of *what*?"

"You saw it," it replied. "You went through the window, didn't you?"

"What *was* that?"

He didn't know why it was possible for him to be talking to a ottoman,
so he certainly didn't know why it was possible for a ottoman's
annoyance to be almost palpable. Nonetheless, he could tell that the
annoyance of this talking ottoman was indeed almost palpable.

"It was your dream world," the ottoman replied, as if that should have
been obvious. Then, after a moment's pause, "but I guess you wouldn't
recognize it. We *are* always showing you other things while you're in
there, instead."

He still didn't follow. He waited a moment, as if he thought his
confusion would go away on its own. It didn't.

"I still don't follow," he said.

If the ottoman had eyes, he was sure it would have rolled them. In
fact, he got the distinct impression that the ottoman *had* rolled the
eyes it didn't have.

"Look," it said, "it's pretty easy. You know you have dreams, right?"

"Yeah," he confirmed, questioningly.

"And you know your dreams don't happen in the real world, right?"

"Yeah..."

"Well then where do you *think* they happen?"

"Well," he stammered, "in my head, I thought."

Another impossible eyeroll. "Of course not. We can't have you running
around and messing with things in here, can we? No. You need a place
where you can't cause trouble. That's why you've got that nice little
box out there. We can just show you some pictures and you can run
around all night without screwing anything up while your body gets the
rest it needs."

He gaped.

"Well it makes sense, doesn't it? I mean, we pull the crazy people out
of *society* and stick 'em in padded rooms to keep 'em from causing
trouble. Why should it be any different with you? At least your padded
room comes with 3D interactive television!"

This time, the ottoman was silent until he managed to regain control
of his mouth and form a thought.

"So..."

"Mm?"

"So when I sleep, I'm in that place," he said, nodding toward the
window.

"Right."

"But I'm always in my body when I dream, aren't I?"

"Well of course that's how it seems. I mean, you think you're in your
body now, don't you? And you're clearly not, 'cause you're here."

He looked down, trying to figure out one mystery at a time. He
certainly *looked* like himself. "If I'm not in my body, then..."

"Well what would you *rather* look like," the ottoman questioned. "A
gorilla?  A platypus? You look like you because it makes *sense* to
you that you look like you."

"Sheesh," it grumbled, "you really *would* get nowhere without us."

He frowned. He certainly *felt* like he was getting nowhere, talking
ottoman or not.

"So, okay--where am I, then," he asked, hoping to find a bit of reason
*somewhere*.

"On the wrong side. Didn't I say that once?"

"But wha--"

"Look, buddy, it's not that hard. In the daytime, you're awake and
living your life in the real world. At night, you dream. But you can't
just run around in your body in the real world, right? And you can't
run around inside your *head*, either. So we give you a little box
*between* the two. And when you're done there, you're supposed to pop
back out into your body in the real world." It paused. "Except this
time, you woke up on the wrong side. Dunno how you did it."

"So I'm inside my own head."

"*Yes!*"

"I... see." He didn't see, but he was growing worried. "So, does that
mean..." He hesitated, fearing the answer. "I'm *not* hallucinating?"

"Uh, yeah. This is entirely real."

The acid trip theory had been shot down. That could hardly be good
news.

"And it sucks," the ottoman went on, grumbling to itself, "'cause
you're annoying enough to deal with when you're *not* here in person."

Later, he would look back and laugh at the thought of being insulted
by the upholstery of his own brain. Now, however, he was beginning to
panic.

"Well what do I do? I have to get back," he fluttered.

"Beats me," the ottoman calmly replied. "I don't even know why you're
here to begin with."

"But what if she--" He paused, fire in his eyes. "I-- I have to get
back!"

"Look, buddy, cool it. I don't know what to tell you. I mean, how did
you get here?"

"I just woke up here! I don't know!" He looked around
frantically. "How do I get out of this room?"

He had already tried going through the window, but that hadn't taken
him where he wanted to go. From this side, though, he could clearly
see that this room was part of an entire castle. There must be an
exit.

"What if I go to sleep again? If that's all I did to get here, maybe
it was just a fluke and I'll be on the right side when I wake up."

"I dunno," the ottoman said doubtfully, "you've already woken up here
twice. It seems like you're stuck."

Right--he had forgotten. So that was no use.

"This room. How do I get out of this room?" He glanced outside
again. "And what's that red tower?"

He could see many white towers through the window, but there was only
one of the same deep red as the room accents.

"That's the director's place," the ottoman answered. "Hmm, maybe you
should go see him."

"The *director*?"

"Yeah," the ottoman said wistfully, "he might be able to help."

"How do I get there?"

"Well... I don't really know," it began, but before it could finish
its thought, a piece of the wall opposite the window dissolved away,
leaving an opening to a castle hallway. The ottoman was alone.

He walked briskly down the hall, in the direction of the red tower.
It wasn't long before he reached the first branch in the path, at
which he took the direction that seemed closest to the red tower.

At branch after branch he did this, but, he realized, it seemed like
his destination was growing no closer. He grew exasperated. His fast
walk became a run and then a full sprint, and he finally collapsed,
gasping, glaring at the tower that still loomed far off in the
distance.

"What am I supposed to do?" he panted. "I don't know!  I want to get
back, and then--I don't know!"

His vision blurred. He could feel the frustration on his face, welling
up in his eyes and running down his cheeks.
