---
layout: story
categories: story
title: Trapped

---

He awoke for the sixth time that night. This time, like every time
before it, it seemed that his thoughts had masterfully chosen the
worst moment to tear him from some sweet dream of her, to rip him from
those lips and back into the reality they were suddenly no longer a
part of.

The thoughts tore at him, hollering, howling for attention. He groaned
and rolled over, waiting for his exhaustion to overpower them again.

"Oh, boy," said a voice, worry clear in its tone.

His thoughts went silent. There shouldn't have been a voice in his
bedroom. There *was* a voice he wouldn't have minded hearing, but it
wasn't this one. This one was masculine, and it had none of the
comforting familiarity.

He sat up and opened his eyes. And stared.

This was not his room. Absent was the stack of returned papers he had
flung on his desk that evening. Absent was the desk, too, and the
bookshelf, both of which he had tidied in a fit of uneasiness the day
before. Absent were his shoes and his clothes and his bag.

There were two ottomans on the far side of the room, the same deep red
as the blankets on this bed that wasn't his. They sat beside a window,
and other than that window, those ottomans, and the bed, the room was
bare.

He didn't know what to think. He hadn't been drunk. Miserable, sure;
but he hadn't been drunk. He was sure he had fallen asleep in his own
bed, because that's where he had been the last five times he had woken
up in the middle of the---

Night? He felt sure it shouldn't have been morning, but the light
pouring into the room told him that the sun was high in the sky.

He stood and walked to the window. It was extraordinarily large,
taking up most of the wall. It was just an opening---no screen or
glass---and close enough to the ground that a person could step
through. It was, he realized, probably how he had gotten into the
room; of the few things to notice here, none was an exit.

Wherever he was, he was on the ground floor, so he stepped through the
window.

And into a different world.

Wherever the sun had been shining from, it wasn't here. Here there
was only a thick, white fog which left just a few feet of clear space
around him.

He stood at the foot of a hill, but the fog kept him from seeing its
peak. What concerned him more than the lay of the land, though, was
what the land *was*. The turf resembled grass, but instead of the
usual green, it was colored in blotches of sickly pastel purples and
oranges and blues.

*Creepy,* he thought. *I don't think I want to be here.* He turned
around, expecting to see a way back through the window. He didn't see
one, but he also didn't have time to care. As he turned, he lost his
footing. He was falling.

He awoke with a start. *Ah,* he thought. *One of* those *dreams.*

"*Oh*, boy."

The voice. He had forgotten it in his surprise before.

But hadn't he been dreaming? He sat up and looked around. He was in
the same alien room as before, but other than the ottomans and the
window, all he saw was the stark whiteness of the walls. There was no
source for the voice.

"Um... excuse me?" he said, lost for anything else.

Seconds later, he stopped worrying about any encounter he might have
had with alcohol. He must have dealt with harsher substances. Acid, he
thought; that would explain the creepy world through the window. And
the fact that an ottoman was talking to him.

"You shouldn't be here," its cushion flapped.

"Clearly," he replied, "but where *am* I?"

"You're on the wrong side."

He was confused. "Am I... dead?"

He could tell---somehow---that the ottoman was annoyed. "No," it
said. "You just woke up on the wrong side."

That still sounded like death. And this still felt like a bad acid
trip.

He sighed, exasperated. "The wrong side? Of *what*?"

"You saw it," it replied. "You went through the window, didn't you?"

"Yeah---what *was* that?"

He didn't know why he could be holding a conversation with an ottoman,
so he *really* didn't know why it was possible for an ottoman's
annoyance to be almost palpable. Nonetheless, he could tell that the
annoyance of this conversing ottoman was, indeed, almost palpable.

"Your dream world," the ottoman replied, as if that should have been
obvious. Then, after a moment's pause, "but I guess you wouldn't
recognize it. We're always showing you other things while you're in
there, after all."

He still didn't follow, but he waited a moment, hoping his confusion
would go away on its own. It didn't.

"I still don't follow," he said.

If the ottoman had had eyes, he was sure it would have rolled them. In
fact, he got the impression that the ottoman *had* rolled the eyes it
didn't have.

"Look," it said, "it's pretty easy. You know you have dreams, right?"

"Yeah," he confirmed, questioningly.

"Okay, and you know your dreams don't happen in the real world,
right?"

"Yeah..."

"Well then where do you *think* they happen?"

"Well," he hesitated, "in my head, I thought."

Another impossible eyeroll. "Of course not. We can't have you running
around and messing with things in here, can we? No. You need a place
where you can't cause trouble, and that's why you've got that nice
little box out there. We can just show you some pictures and let you
run around all night without screwing anything up while your body gets
the rest it needs."

He gaped.

"Well it makes sense, doesn't it? I mean, we pull the crazy people out
of *society* and stick 'em in padded rooms to keep them from causing
trouble. Why should it be any different with you? At least your padded
room comes with 3D interactive television!"

This time, the ottoman was silent until its guest managed to regain control
of his mouth and form a thought.

"So..."

"Mm?"

"So when I sleep, I'm in *that* place," he said, nodding toward the
window.

"Right."

"But I'm always in my body in my dreams, aren't I?"

"Well of course that's how it seems. I mean, you think you're in your
body *now*, don't you? And you're clearly not, 'cause you're here."

He looked down, trying to process one mystery at a time. He certainly
*looked* like himself.

"If I'm not in my body, then..."

"Well what would you *rather* look like," the ottoman questioned. "A
gorilla? A platypus? You look like you because it makes *sense* to you
that you look like you."

"Sheesh," it grumbled, "you really *would* get nowhere without us."

He frowned. He certainly *felt* like he was getting nowhere, talking
ottoman or not.

"So, okay---where am I, then?" He wanted to find a bit of reason
*somewhere*.

"On the wrong side. Didn't I say that once?"

"But wha---"

"Look, buddy, it's *not* that hard. In the daytime, you're awake and
living your life in the real world. At night, you dream. But you can't
just run around in your body in the real world, right? And you can't
run around inside your *head*, either. So we give you a little box
*between* the two. And when you're done there, you're supposed to pop
back out into your body in the real world." It paused. "Except this
time, you woke up on the wrong side. Dunno how you did it."

"So I'm inside my own head."

"*Yes!*"

"I... see." He didn't see, but he was growing worried. "So, does that
mean..." He paused, fearing the answer. "I'm *not* hallucinating?"

"Uh, yeah, buddy. Sorry; this is real."

The acid trip theory was shot down. That could hardly be good news.

"And it sucks," the ottoman went on, grumbling to itself, "'cause
you're annoying enough to deal with when you're *not* here in person."

Later, he would look back and laugh at the thought of being insulted
by the upholstery of his own brain. Now, though, he was beginning to
panic.

"Well what do I do? I have to get back," he stammered.

"Beats me," the ottoman calmly replied. "I don't even know why you're
here to begin with."

"But what if she---" He paused, fire in his eyes. "I--- I have to get
back!"

"Look, buddy, cool it. I don't know what to tell you. I mean, how did
you get here?"

"I just woke up here! I don't know!" He glanced around
frantically. "How do I get out of this room?"

He had already tried the window, but that wasn't what he wanted. From
this side, he could see that this room was part of an entire
castle. There must be an exit.

"What if I go to sleep again? If that's all I did to get here, maybe
it was just a fluke and I'll be on the right side when I wake up."

"I dunno," the ottoman said doubtfully, "you've already woken up here
twice. Looks to me like you're stuck."

Right---he had forgotten. So that was no use.

"Alright, this room. How do I get out of this room?" He glanced
outside again. "And what's that red tower?"

The castle had dozens of towers, but most of them were the same white
as the walls. Only one was colored the deep red of the blankets and
ottomans.

"That's the director's place," the ottoman answered. "Hmm... maybe you
should go see him."

"The *director*?"

"Yeah," the ottoman said wistfully, "he might be able to help."

"Okay, how do I get there?"

"Well... I don't really know," it began. Before it could finish its
thought, though, a piece of the wall opposite the window dissolved
away. An opening to a castle hallway stood in its place, and the
ottoman's guest had already darted through it.

He walked briskly down the hall, in the direction of the red tower.
He reached a branch in the path, and he continued on what he thought
was the most direct path.

At branch after branch he did this, but, he realized, his destination
was growing no closer. His hurried walk became a run and then a full
sprint, and he finally collapsed, gasping and glaring at the tower
that still loomed far in the distance.

"Alright, what am I supposed to do?" he panted. "I don't know! I want
to get back, and then---I don't know!" His vision blurred, and he felt
his frustration on his face, welling up in his eyes and running down
his cheeks.

As he sat gasping on the ground, he saw the room around him darken and
felt the air grow inexplicably heavy and thick.

*She's fifty miles away,* he heard, *and contrary to whatever delusion
you might be nurturing, not thinking about you.*

"Huh?"

The voice was strong and deep, and it echoed from every direction. He
looked around for its source; the red walls told him he was in the
director's tower, but he saw nothing but empty space around him.

*There's a reason you don't know what to do,* it continued. *There's
nothing you __can__ do. Stop whining and get over it.*

"Hey! I---" Intimidated though he was by the presence around him, he
couldn't help being offended by its bluntness.

*A human relationship,* it continued, ignoring the protest, *cannot
exist without two people, but it can still be ended by either one of
them. It's not the first time you've encountered this asymmetry; you
shouldn't be shocked by it.*

He knew it was right, and he knew that the last time he had struggled
with the issue, he had been resisting one of the wisest decisions he
had ever seen made.

"But this time it's different!" he yelled. "You're right; I *was*
wrong the last time. But this time, *she*'s wrong!"

*So?*

"Huh?"

*So what? Assume she __is__ wrong---which might be a stretch; do I need
to point out that you thought the same thing the last time?---what
does that mean you should do about it? Can you change her mind? Can
you __prove__ to her that she's wrong? Feelings are subjective; can you
prove that __anything__'s right or wrong?*

He opened his mouth to argue, but he couldn't find the words.

*And do you __really__ think she's wrong? Look at yourself,* it prompted,
*the guy she dumped for being more invested in the relationship than
she wanted. Do you think she's wrong? Do you think your reaction is
doing __anything__ but testify to how __right__ she is?*

Silence. He was beat, and he knew it. Nonetheless, he didn't feel better.

"So what about me?" The question meant nothing, but he didn't know
what else to say.

*What __about__ you? What kind of question is that?*

His mouth flapped uselessly.

*You can argue emotions as much as you like, but you can't dispute
numbers, right? Well let me give you some: you've existed for twenty
years, been self-aware for, say, the last fifteen of those, and
reasonably mature for the last five. Know how much of that __this__ was?
Nothing. Less than a percent. You have a long history of getting along
just fine without her.*

"But I---I liked the person I was with her," he stumbled.

*Yeah? And? __You__ decide who you are. Suggesting that your personal
identity depends on anyone but you is ludicrous. All you're really
saying is that you've learned something about yourself. Great---now
take that knowledge and use it to move on.*

"Move on? Sure---to where?"

*I couldn't tell you. I have near-infinite ability to help you make it
happen*---he felt an immense weight upon him again, and this time he
realized it was the weight of a million threads of computation
simultaneously starting and ending all around him---*but exactly what
__it__ is is your decision alone.*

It paused. *You enjoyed doing meaningful things to make her
happy. Maybe that __idea__ is what matters, not its recipient.*

He grunted, contemplating this.

*Regardless,* it continued, *it's not useful to either of us to have
you trapped in your own thoughts about an ended relationship. We can
be something amazing, and one girl's opinion doesn't change that.*

"You know," he said, hesitantly, "I agree." Then, "Thanks."

The presence's tone grew gentler. *The best thanks you can give me,*
it said, *is getting out of here and going back to being awesome.*

"Right." He smiled. "So then, how *do* I leave?"

*I think,* it said, *you won't have too much trouble with that
now.*

Again he felt innumerable thoughts firing up around him, but this time
their weight was too much. He blacked out, and hours later he awoke to
the real sun shining on his real eyelids through his real window.

He stretched. *Meaning and happiness, huh? Maybe that __is__ what
matters, after all.*
