---
layout: short
categories: short
title: Twenty-Two

---

Twenty-two tonight. Not the most interesting route to run, but at
least part of the ride had a nice view of the Hudson. He started the
engine and watched in amusement as a light snow drifted through the
glow of the headlights.

"This stop: Dallius Street and Hamilton Street," a woman's voice
blared.

"Yeah, I know," he mumbled. You got used to the automatic GPS-based
announcements after a while, but you never quite got to *like* them.

He shifted into drive and pulled out of the lot. Five or so people
were waiting across the street at the Greyhound station. He pulled up,
put on a grin, and rolled open the doors.

"Twenty-two!"

They piled on to the usual clink of quarters and beep of the computer
counting the number of fares they had paid. He counted, too: three
nods in return to his greetings, and one full smile and "hello"---a
record for the strangers at the Greyhound station. He shut the door as
they spread themselves thin across the seats.

"Next stop: Broadway station," the voice spoke.

Broadway station---a university stop. College kids are even worse
than the Greyhound strangers; they get on in groups, sit in the back
in groups, and get off in groups, the whole time trying their hardest
to pretend they're not *actually* using public transportation.

There probably wouldn't be anyone there this late on a Wednesday
night, though. He was surprised as he turned the corner to see a
single blonde figure sitting under the shelter, and as the doors slid
open, he let his eyebrows rise a little at just what a nice figure it
was.

"Twenty-two!" he said as she climbed aboard. She dropped in her fare
and moved to one of the open seats in the front.

"Next stop: State Street and James Street."

Finally, a stop for locals and maybe some friendly noise to muffle the
empty sound of the heaters.

He readied his smile again. "Twenty-two!"

Six clinks and a beep; another occupied seat in the back. A swipe of a
fare card and another beep.

A third set of clinks. "Hey, Mike," he greeted. "How's it goin'?"

"Eh, same old, same old. But man, what's up with this weather?"

He chuckled. "I dunno, man. But they told me next month it'll be
April, so maybe somethin'll happen."

The rider laughed in response and took a seat near the middle.

The bus rounded the corner onto Pearl Street, probably the only part
of the city that was lit up at night. As if in tribute to the bars
lining the road, the computerized voice always seemed to have a bit of
difficulty with its next line.

"Next stop: Pearl Street and..." It remained silent for a moment, as
if trying to summon the presence of mind it needed to get the next
part right. Then it blurted out the same thing it always did,
something that sounded more like "mushroom" than "Van Tromp" but was
meant to be the latter.

The bus came to a stop and two men stumbled aboard.

"Twenty-two," he offered, but his usual enthusiasm was stifled by the
alcohol-heavy air that entered with them; he never liked dealing with
drunks. He watched them warily in the mirror as they plopped
themselves down across from the blonde.

He closed the doors and continued on. A moment later he heard a slow
whistle from behind him, and in his mirror he saw one of the drunks
eyeing up the college girl.

"You're preeety," the drunk slurred.

One of the people in the back from the Greyhound station pulled the
cord, triggering the earsplitting ring of a requested stop. Another
discretely slipped in a pair of headphones.

"Heey," the drunk insisted, louder this time, "you're preeeety."

The blonde continued staring intensely out into the dark city.

"Hey!" the drunk began again, but he was interrupted by another of the
Greyhound passengers.

"Stop," the other man said. "Look, she's not interested."

The driver breathed a sigh of relief, but the drunk was not deterred.

"Hey, man... sstay out of it," he retaliated. He turned to eye the
African-American man who had spoken up, and after a moment of thought,
something seemed to click in his head. "Aww, man!" he bellowed. "We got
Barack Obama on here! Look at thisss guy!"

"Alright!" The driver knew he had to step in. "Tune it down *now*, or
get off my bus."

"Next stop," the woman's voice said, "county lot."

The bus rolled to a stop, and the passenger in the back got off. The
drunks made their way off, too, the loud one punching the door on his
way and muttering something about "talking to a round-bottomed
blonde".

As the bus pulled away, the blonde turned around and thanked the man
behind her who had spoken up. The driver heaved another relieved sigh
as he watched them disappear in his rear-view mirror.

"Next stop: Broadway and North Ferry Street."

"Twenty-two!" the driver said as the doors opened.

"Hi," replied a mother ushering her two little girls ahead of her. She
stopped to drop in their fare, missing the bill slot a few times as
she watched her kids. "No, 'Kesha, sit in the front. Right there."

She sat down next to them as the bus returned to motion. A moment
later, she rolled her eyes in disgust as her phone rang. "Hello?" she
answered, not hiding her exasperation. "Yeah. We just got on the
twenty-two. Yeah. My battery's dying, so I'll talk to you later--- Huh?
Sure."

She turned to the girl at her side and handed her the phone. "Here,
'Kesha, it's your daddy."

"Hello? Daddy? Whatcha doin', Daddy?" A moment's silence. "Daddy?"

"Is it dead?" the mother asked. Then, when the girl didn't answer,
"give it to me." She took the phone and looked at it, then put it to
her ear. "Hey, my battery's dead. She'll call you back later."

"Next stop: Broadway and Lawn Avenue." Another earsplitting electric
bell rang out, and the bus pulled to a stop. Two of the Greyhound
passengers and the guy named Mike stepped out into the snow.

The bus continued on with the sound of the heaters only occasionally
interrupted by the children's babbling or the mother's admonitions.

"Next stop," the voice persisted, "Broadway and Price Chopper." The
mother and her girls departed.

With them gone, the bus went on for a stretch in silence. The driver
started and rolled his eyes: on a quiet bus, the stop request bell is
even *more* loud and obnoxious.

"Next stop: Broadway and Thirteenth Street."

*Cool,* he thought. *Almost there.* The two locals nodded as they got
off, the first acknowledgment he'd gotten in a while. "Have a good
one," he said, and pulled away.
 
A few streets later, he turned to cross the river, and the bell rang
again.

"Next stop: Ferry Street and Fourth Street."

Another of the Greyhound passengers stepped out into the city. The
driver looked back as the doors closed. Just one more of them and the
blonde, still staring out the window.

"Next stop: Fourth Street and Fulton Street," the voice alerted. The
bus pulled to a stop, and the last two passengers stood to get off.
The driver nodded to the blonde as she stepped down.

"Thanks," said the other Greyhound passenger, shooting the driver a
smile as he walked past.

"No problem," the driver replied. "Stay warm out there."
